                                 SECTION 1

                       THE SPRITE GENERATOR PROGRAM
                              by Paul Newnham


INTRODUCTION

The Sprite Generator Program was developed to compliment the White Lightning
language.  The language is comprised of commands for manipulating sprites and
screen data but does not have the facility to directly design graphics characters.
This means there are two phases to games creation.  The first involves designing
and editing your graphics characters with the sprite generator program, and the
second involves the writing of the game itself using the White Lightning language.
In practice the two areas of work will probably be carried out simultaneously.
For those of you who are not artistically inclined, there are two sets of
previously defined graphics characters ready to use.

The Arcade Character Set

The arcade character set is an integral part of the sprite generator program - 167
characters are provided in all.  To see these, LOAD and run DEMO B using LOAD "".
The demo will auto-run.  This will tell you which characters can be called up by
which number, using Function Key Z.  These characters are summarised as the
penultimate part of this section.

The Demonstration Sprites

Directly after White Lightning on side A you will find the demonstration sprites.
By running the tape past White Lightning and using the LOAD SPRITES FROM TAPE
facility, these can be loaded and edited for your own use.  The various sprites
are tabulated at the end of this section.


USING SPRITES WITH WHITE LIGHTNING

Once you have completed an editing session, the sprites generated should be Saved
to tape for further editing sessions, or for use with the White Lightning language
itself.  To Load your sprites into White Lightning:

1.   Load White Lightning using LOAD ""

2.   Insert the tape containing your sprites into the tape recorder and press Y in
response to the "LOAD SPRITES Y/N" prompt. The sprites will be Loaded at the
address from which they were saved using the sprite generator program.


COLDSTART

If you enter the sprite generator program via a COLD start, then all sprites
previously stored will be cleared and all system variables reset.  If, for
instance, you wish to use the demonstration sprites, you would enter via a COLD
start.  The program must always be initially entered via a COLD start.


WARM START

If you enter the program via a WARM start then all sprites will be conserved and
all system variables left unchanged.  It is provided principally for re-entering
the program after an accidental BREAK or ERROR.  If you do accidentally BREAK;
type: GOTO 3 and then enter via the WARM start.