# TODO: Remove this comment once this file has been proofread

ATTRIBUTE DATA
The colour of the INK and PAPER in each particular cell, together with the
BRIGHT and FLASH attributes of the character, are controlled by a separate
byte. The bytes which define the attributes of the block of characters are
referred to as Attribute data. Pixel data and Attribute data are
frequently treated as separate entities.

SCREEN OPERATIONS
Often, it is required to carry out an operation, such as a scroll or a
reflection, on one particular section of the screen. Four variables are
used to define a screen window; these are COL, ROW, HGT and LEN. The
co-ordinates of the top left-hand corner are held in COL and ROW, where
COL is measured from the left and ROW from the top. Both values are in
characters. HGT and LEN are the dimensions of the window. COL + LEN must
be in the range 1 to 32, and ROW + HGT must be in the range 1 to 24.
Commands in this group are postfixed with a "V"; eg. WRL1V, INVV, MIRV.

SCREEN/SPRITE OPERATIONS
These are operations between the screen and a sprite. The dimensions of
the sprite are used as the dimensions of the screen window, and COL and
ROW are used to give the co-ordinates of the top left of the window. If
the window overlaps the edge of the screen the command will not execute.
Typical commands in this group are the PUTs and GETs, which move sprites
between the screen and memory. Commands in this group are postfixed with
an "S"; eg. PUTBLS, GETXRS.

SPRITE OPERATIONS
These cover more or less the same commands as the screen operations, but
this time a complete sprite is used instead of a screen window. The only
parameter required is the sprite number stored in SPN. Commands in this
group are postfixed with a "M"; eg. WRR4M, ATTUPM.

SCREEN/SPRITE WINDOW OPERATIONS
These are operations between a screen window and a sprite window. As
before, ROW, COL, HGT and LEN define the screen window; but this time,
SCOL and SROW are used to define the position of the window within the
sprite. SCOL and SROW are measured in characters, SROW from the top and
SCOL from the left. If SROW + HGT is greater than 24 or the sprite height,
or SCOL + LEN is greater than 32 or the sprite width, the commands will
not execute. These commands are postfixed with an "S"; eg. GWATTS, PWORS.

SPRITE/SPRITE WINDOW OPERATIONS
These are operations between a whole sprite and a sprite window. The two
sprite numbers are held in SP1 (the whole sprite) and SP2 (the sprite
which contains the window). The dimensions of the window are the
dimensions of the sprite whose number is held in SP1. The position of the
window in the sprite whose number is held in SP2 is specified by SCOL and
SROW. Commands in this group are postfixed with a "M"; eg. GWATTM, PWNDM.