# TODO: Remove this comment once this file has been proofread

WHITE LIGHTNING
by Oasis Software


INTRODUCTION
by Mike Butler

White Lightning is a high level graphics development system for the
Spectrum 48k. It is aimed primarily at the user who has commercial games
writing in mind and has the patience to learn a sizeable new language. It
is not a games designer and stunning results probably won't be produced
overnight, but it does have the power and flexibility to produce software
of a commercial standard (with a little perseverance!). Software produced using White Lightning can be marketed without restriction, although, we would be very grateful if you felt you could pop a small credit on the sleeve. If you're looking for a publisher - don't forget us !.

Assembly language has three advantages over high level languages: speed,
flexibility and compactness. During the running of an arcade game, the
processor spends most of its time manipulating screen data, and if the
appropriate commands are implemented in the language, the execution
"overhead" is very small. Add to this the fact that considerable time has
been spent on the routines themselves to optimise execution speed, and we
feel most machine code programmers would be hard pressed to better White
Lightning for speed. As far as flexibility is concerned, White Lightning
has almost 300 commands as well as access to BASIC and machine language if
required. A lot of the tricky routines like rotations and enlargements are
already implemented for you. As far as compactness goes, Forth itself
produces very compact code, but there is, of course, the overhead of the
language itself. Assembly language has four major drawbacks. Firstly,
you've got to learn it. Having mastered machine code, program development
is very slow compared with a typical high level language; there is no
"crash protection" whatsoever; and to produce effective results you need
a fairly intimate knowledge of the machine you're working with.

BASIC has several points in its favour; these are: excellent crash
protection, extremely readable source code and a relatively short learning
curve. These features make BASIC a very good introduction to programming
for the hobbyist, but for the serious games writer the language is
insufficient in terms of both its speed and flexibility.

Because White Lightning is Forth based it has virtually the speed of
machine code, no knowledge of the machine is required, the source code is
relatively readable, and it is fairly well protected from crashing.

If you do have any queries concerning White Lightning, then we can be contacted by phone on (0934) 419921. If possible, please restrict calls to the periods 9 am to 11 an or 6 pn to 6.30 pn. If this is not convenient we are here all day. If your query is a detailed one then it's probably better to write in. We are also interested to hear of any extensions or routines you may develop, and if sufficient interest is shown we will start a News Letter, and possibly, even a User Group.


SPRITE DEVELOPMENT

Included with White Lightning is a sprite generator. This comes complete
with a pre-defined character set which, when suitably combined, makes up
to 167 full characters. The pre-defined characters cover Asteroids,
Pac-Man, Scramble, Defender, Space Invaders, City Bomber, Lunar Lander,
Frogger, Centipede, Donkey Kong and many more. You can use them as they
are, customise them, or design up to 255 of your own sprites. The
development software allows you to reflect, spin or invert. When you have
finished work, or between sessions, the whole lot can be simply saved to
tape.