# TODO: Remove this comment once this file has been proofread

Fourth byte Holds the width of the sprite in characters fl to 255).
Fifth byte Holds the height of the sprite in characters (1 to 255).

8*height*leryth bytes Pixel data.

Height*length bytes    Attribute data.

This means that the total space allocated to each sprite is 9*height*length+5 bytes.

Sprite numbers do not need to run sequentially, but the earlier a sprite is defined, the more rapid its access.

LOADING SPRITES FROM TAPE

Sprites saved to tape using the development software can be loaded into
the main program at the start of the session when the "LOAD SPRITES Y/N"
prompt appears. If sprites are loaded in this manner, the sprite data,
together with the necessary pointers, will be loaded. SPST and SPND are
automatically set and the sprites will be ready for use.

If sprites are saved and later loaded from White Lightning, SPST and SPND
will need to be set by hand.


THE BUFFER

When vertical scrolling takes place, be it for pixel data or attributes,
with or without wrap, data has to be temporarily stored for later
retrieval. If a vertical scroll is executed by the foreground program then
the buffer is pointed to by SPND, so the space immediately above sprites
is used. When the sprite development software is used, a prompt is issued
at the start of the session, which asks the user whether or not buffer
size should be changed. If the buffer size is not changed then it remains
256 bytes long. The user can enter a larger or smaller value if preferred,
though the default value of 256 will cover most eventualities.

Scrolling attributes uses one byte for each column of the width; scrolling
pixel data uses one byte for each column of the width multiplied by the
number of pixels being scrolled (the value held in NPX). The buffer space
need only be large enough to accommodate the largest scroll, as foreground
scrolls will not take place simultaneously. Suppose a sprite or screen
window 8 characters high by 4 characters wide is to be scrolled by 10
pixels. (The direction, ie. the sign of NPX, does not matter.) The space
required is 4*10 = 40 bytes. If you find at some later stage that you have
not allowed enough buffer space, you can always relocate sprite space
downward and likewise, if you have more than you need, you can relocate
upward.


BACKGROUND SCROLLING

When programs are executed in background it is risky to share a common
scrolling buffer, since the background program could execute while the
foreground program is using the buffer. For this reason, a second buffer
pointer is used for background scrolling. The variable holding the address
of the background buffer is SPND'. When White Lightning is first entered,
SPND' points to the 256 free bytes in the printer buffer at decimal 23296.
The user can move this buffer by changing the value held in SPND'. It is
not a bad idea to allocate enough buffer space for both foreground and
background scrolling above