More Advanced Techniques

Often it is not practical to repeatedly PUT the screen data which accompanies the
moving sprite and more frequently movement is required with a higher resolution
than one character.

To begin with, let's consider the problem of improving the resolution of the
movement.  Let's work again with a 2x2 sprite (sprite 24 of the demo sprites will
do).  Type COLD to clear previous examples.

Suppose we wish to move the sprite around the screen with 2 pixel resolution.
This means that between 2 successive columns there are 4 intermediate
orientations, each successive orientation being 2 pixels right shifted.  This
means we need 4 sprites in all before the cycle is repeated at the next column
position.

To begin with let's set up the 4 sprites and number them 100, 101, 102 and 103.
To create these 4 sprites, type:

: MAKE 2 HGT ! 3 LEN ! 104 100 DO I SPN ! ISPRITE CLSM LOOP ;

This will define and clear the 4 sprites and we can now put the character in its
various orientations, into these sprites.  There are two stages to this operation.
Firstly sprite 24 needs to be put into sprite 100, then sprites 100 to 103 need to
be scrolled and PUT successively to build up the four orientations.

: SET1 0 SROW ! 0 SCOL ! 24 SP1 ! 100 SP2 ! GWBLM ;

This sets up sprite 100 and the remaining 3 orientations are set up from this
sprite using:

: SET2 103 100 DO I SP1 ! I 1+ DUP SP2 ! SPN ! COPYM WRR1M WRR1M LOOP ;

It's worth putting these sprites on the screen to see what they look like.
Assuming you've executed the words MAKE, SET1 and SET2 use:

: TESTE CLS 0 COL ! 4 0 DO I 100 + SPN ! I DUP + ROW ! PUTBLS LOOP 8 0 AT ;

This will place the 4 orientations, one above the other, so that the resolution of
the movement can be seen.

To use the source version type 9 LOAD MAKE SET1 SET2 TESTE

This now gives us 2 pixel horizontal resolution so that we now have 128 horizontal
plotting positions in the range 0 to 127. We need a simple formula which will
calculate the sprite number and the column from the horizontal plotting position.
This turns out to be very simple:

: HPLOT 4 /MOD COL ! 100 + SPN ! PUTBLS ;

So to PUT at X-position 27 (54 pixels from the left hand column) just use:

27 HPLOT

The previous example is useful in that it indicates a way of producing high
resolution PUTting but as it stands cannot be used for animation because it does
not enable the removal of previously placed orientations.  Before looking at a
scheme for animating these orientations let's generalise this example to cover
high resolution vertical movement as well as horizontal movement.